# Rent skiing gear

## Download a programming language and tools

**Note: this section is work in progress**

## Overview:

- Install an editor
- Install a programming language
- Install a package manager

## Install an editor

**Why:**

A code editor makes it a lot easier to write code. It provides syntax highlighting to easily read code for example. It also autocompletes code you're typing to make you faster and prevent typos. In addition most code editors can be extensively modded to help you. You can install a 'linter' for your language to help prevent syntax mistakes for example.

**Install a code editor like Atom or Sublime and play with it! *(Google them)***

## Install a programming language and a version manager

**Why:**

Up till now you've probably been programming in a tool inside the browser. The language you've been using has been configured and installed for you and you have no control over it. As you start to incorporate libraries and frameworks into your programming you need to be able to run the code on your own machine as web based tools will not allow you to install libraries or frameworks. To manage the version of the language you're using also install a version manager.

**Install your programming language of choice on your own computer
Google:**

‘install’ + ProgrammingLanguage + ‘on’ + OperatingSystem -> ***e.g. install ruby on mac***

**Version managers:**

I have used:
- JavaScript - nodenv or nvm
- Ruby - rbenv or rvm
- Python - pipenv or virtualenv

I have never used these myself so do your own research:
- C# - CLR Version Tool (?)
- Java - Jabba or jenv
- PHP - phpenv or php-version
- Swift - swiftenv

## Install a package manager

**Why:**

Writing programs completely by yourself is incredible slow and inefficient. A lot of the problems you're facing have been solved by other programmers. A lot of commonly used code is available online in the form of libraries(small), packages(medium) and frameworks(large).

There are tools built specifically for downloading and installing this code on your machine. These tools are called: package managers. There are multiple ones for each language:

**Install a package manager for your language:**

I have used:
- JavaScript - npm or yarn
- Ruby - bundler
- Python - pip

I have never used these myself so do your own research:
- C# - Chocolatey, Nuget or Paket
- Java - Gradle or Maven
- PHP - Composer
- Swift - Included in core language (I think)
