# Talk to a local

## Choosing a programming language

*(excerpt from reddit/r/programming)*:

Which programming language should I start with?
There are two common misconceptions that cause people to ask this question. The first is that there actually is a "best" programming language for learning and the second is that the first language you learn will decide what the rest of your programming career looks like.

In reality, there is no best language to start with, and your first language has virtually no lasting effect on your eventual career. Programming languages can look very different on the surface, but the majority of the fundamental concepts will transfer from language to language. Learning a new language will also get easier over time -- it can take a beginner months before they feel comfortable with their first language; an experienced programmer can become familiar with a new language in a matter of days.

All programmers should ideally have experience in multiple types of languages. Once you are comfortable with one language, move on to another language which differs in some fundamental way. As you learn more languages, you will become more equipped to choose the right tool for the task at hand, which is a hallmark of a good programmer. Since programming concepts are what matter most, we recommended that beginners start with one of the mainstream languages from the table below. All these languages enable beginners to start writing simple applications and practice programming without having to use any of the more complex language features.

## **Tools to help you choose:**

- ### [Simple questions to determine a programming language for you (or to compare languages):](http://www.bestprogramminglanguagefor.me/)

- ### [A no nonsense approach to choosing a language](http://choosing-a-language.techboss.co)

- ### Do your own research ;)
