# Go to a museum



You can do this exercise in two very different ways:

### **Challenge mode:** Try to do small challenges by googling
>**\+** Programmers frequently have to google to get the answers they need. Doing the exercise this way will give you a taste of what that feels like.  
**\+** Get a great feeling when you complete a challenge! You did it!  
**\-** Googling for answer takes time and practice. It might be a little bit frustrating in the beginning  

### **Tutorial mode:** Follow along with a tutorial
>**\+** There is a lot of hand holding so you don't get lost.  
**\+** Lots of explanation and context.  
**\-** Might make you hesitant to strike out on your own.  

# Challenge Mode

We are going to try javascript for the first time with Repl.it!  
Repl.it is a an online editor with which you can try out many different programming languages without having to install them.
* Go to https://repl.it/
* In the searchbox (`Search for a language, e.g. c++`) enter `Html, Css & Javascript`
* Use the `run` button to start your program!

### **Challenges:**

You can use the [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp) javascript section as a reference to look things up

**Easy mode**

- [ ] Make a popup appear by using `window.alert('Hello world')`
- [ ] Make some text appear in the console by using `console.log('Your text here')`
- [ ] Do some math: add two numbers together and run your program

**Intermediate**

- [ ] Look up how to declare a variable. `Declare a variable` and `assign` it the string 'I am a variable'
- [ ] `console.log` the value of your variable
- [ ] Ask the user for some input using `window.prompt('Can I get some input?')`
- [ ] `Assign` the result of `window.prompt('Can I get some input?')` to a variable called `userInput`
- [ ] `console.log` the value of `userInput`

**Challenge mode**

- [ ] Ask the user for permission with `window.confirm('Are you sure?')`. `Assign` the result of `window.confirm` to a variable `permission`
- [ ] Log the value of `permission`, what kind of value does it have?
- [ ] Look up how to make a conditional statement (an `if` statement)
- [ ] Use the permission variable and an `if` statement to make your program do two different things depending on wether you got permission from the user.

**Further reading**

- [ ] Look up what datatypes are and what datatypes exist in Javascript
- [ ] Look up what functions are in javascript and how you can use them


# Tutorial Mode

Learn the basics of JavaScript by going through **[this Scrimba tutorial](https://scrimba.com/g/gintrotojavascript)**
