# Talk to a local

Note: These recommendations are my opinions are by no means the end all be all.

## Choosing a programming language

Preface:

*(excerpt from reddit/r/programming)*:

> "Which programming language should I start with?
There are two common misconceptions that cause people to ask this question. The first is that there actually is a "best" programming language for learning and the second is that the first language you learn will decide what the rest of your programming career looks like.
>
> In reality, there is no best language to start with, and your first language has virtually no lasting effect on your eventual career. Programming languages can look very different on the surface, but the majority of the fundamental concepts will transfer from language to language. Learning a new language will also get easier over time -- it can take a beginner months before they feel comfortable with their first language; an experienced programmer can become familiar with a new language in a matter of days.
>
> All programmers should ideally have experience in multiple types of languages. Once you are comfortable with one language, move on to another language which differs in some fundamental way. As you learn more languages, you will become more equipped to choose the right tool for the task at hand, which is a hallmark of a good programmer. "

## Ways to think about choosing a programming language

3 Ways to think about choosing:

- What do you want to make?
- What are the people around you using?
- Ease of learning
- My recommandation

## What do you want to make

A good way to approach choosing a programming language is to think about what you want to make.

|You want to do|Recommended language(s)|
|----------------|-----------------------|
|Make webpages (frontend)| HTML & CSS & JavaScript |
|Make web applications| JavaScript / Python / Ruby |
|Make games (web) | JavaScript |
|Make AAA games (3D)| C# / C++ |
|Do data analytics| Python / R  |
|Customize wordpress | PHP / JavaScript |
|Make mobile apps cross platform (IOS & Android)| JavaScript |
|Make native mobile apps for Android | Java / Kotlin |
|Mobile native mobile apps for IOS | Swift / Objective-C |
|Desktop applications cross platform| Java / Javascript (Electron) / C++|
|Desktop applications for Windows | C# |

## What are the people around you using

If you have developers among your friends it might be a good idea to ask them what they are using. Having someone you know that can help you is very beneficial.

## Ease of learning

Some languages are easier to learn than others. The reason is that some of the more powerfull languages assume you know what you are doing and give you a lot of control and responsibilities. 

| Difficulty | Languages | Description |
|------------|-----------|----------|
| Very Easy  | Python / Ruby / PHP | Synchronous, dynamic scripting languages|
| Easy       | JavaScript | Asynchronous, dynamic scripting language |
| Medium     | C# / Java | Statically typed compiled & interpreted languages |
| Hard       | C++ | Statically typed compiled languages |

## My recommendation

- If you don't know or can't choose:  
**JavaScript**: Easy to learn and extremely flexible (and you can build an interactive frontend)  
**Python**: Easy to learn and extremely flexible.  

- If you want to experience building something cool without having to dive in super deep:  
**Ruby & Ruby on Rails**: You can learn how build your own AirBnB clone in days instead of months


## **Another Tool to help you choose:**

- ### [Simple questions to determine a programming language for you (or to compare languages):](http://www.bestprogramminglanguagefor.me/)

- ### Do your own research ;)
